Looks like Alibaba does not sleep as they're already back with the launch of a new flagship model, the Quen 3.7 Max, which is built for the agent era. The Quinn 3.7 Max is designed as a versatile Asian foundation model that is capable of advanced coding plus debugging, quite good at front-end prototyping, complex multifall refactors, office workflow automation, multi- aent orchestration, and long horizon autonomous execution. Now, performance-wise, the Coin 3.7 Max is performing strongly across multiple benchmarks like Terminal Bench 2.0, Swaybench where it scores 60.6 as well as many other Asia and coding benchmarks. You can see that there's massive gains and it is basically on par with models like Opus 4.6 Max, Kimik K 2.6 in certain cases even surpassing it. And I personally believe that this is the best Chinese model that is out there right now. It also demonstrates exceptional strength on difficult reasoning evaluations alongside strong multilingual capabilities. But what's wild is that Alibaba is now genuinely entering conversations alongside proprietary giants like Enthropic, Google, and Open AI because this is the closest Quen has been in the frontier race. Cuz the Quinn 3.7 Max now scores a 56.6 on the artificial analysis intelligence index. That is a 4.8 point boost in terms of overlapping the Quen 3.6 Max preview. This is with major gains in scientific reasoning, coding, and agentic capabilities. If you want the best AI tools, workflows, and drops before everyone else, join my free newsletter with the link in the description below, which is completely free. Pun 3.7 Max just outperformed the clawed opus 4.7 as well as GBT 5.5 on a real long horizon agentic coding task where models had to iteratively improve a self-training Tetris spot across 10 autonomous loops where Quen actually achieved the biggest improvement with a 56% gain at the lowest cost which was $1.30. Now, this is massively outperforming Opus 4.7, which had gotten a 28% gain, but it costed about $12.15, and GPC 5.5 had incurred a 7% gain, but was a lot cheaper at around $2.85. But you can see that Alibaba is moving fast and it is efficient while getting the task done. Now, in my own personal benchmark, the world of AI benchmark suite, you can see that in our leaderboard, the Coin 3.7 Max is high up there, ranked number eight right now overall across a lot of the different domains like front end, gaming, 3D graphics, SVG, all of the different domains that you see over listed over here. And you can clearly see that this model does exceptional in almost every front while being comparable to the Frontier models. Now, one of the most differentiating factors of why this model is good is because of how perfected it is at long horizon planning and execution. This is a model that is able to execute quite well autonomously in these long horizon tasks cuz it is something that is able to sustain coherent reasoning across something like a 35hour autonomous executions workflow. This involves using multiple tool calls. In this case, it used 1,200 tool calls continuously where it is able to debug, profile, rewrite, and even improve code without losing context or drifting off. Now, interestingly, this model is actually not multimodal, meaning it is not able to process any of the other modalities like audio, image, and video. It is currently priced at $2.50 per 1 million input tokens and $7.50 per 1 million output tokens. start using this model, you can easily do so through their chat, which is something that you can access completely for free and create an account to use the coin 3.7 Max. You can change it between the thinking and fast mode. You can also access it via their API. To start things off, let's take a look at the Mac OS clone that the model did an exceptional job at generating. This is where it had done quite well in generating all the applications. And right away within the bottom toolbar, you will notice that all of the different applications have an SVG icon represented for each of the app, which is incredible. But the fact that it was able to use the full context to actually generate multiple apps, it is the most remarkable thing. Now, what I really like is that on the top bar, you have all the functional components that you would expect of a Mac OS. So, everything on the top toolbar actually works. You have the ability to change the brightness, which is actually kind of cool. You can also use Spotlight and you can even use the Launchpad as well to open up almost anything. Now, this is where you have the Finder app. Everything has been coded out, which is nice. You have Safari, which doesn't look like it coded out properly, but still, regardless, you have all of these different applications that were generated, and that is just incredible because that's what you're looking for. And the fact that it's able to actually generate almost all of these things precisely to what a Mac OS looks like is the best thing ever. Now, photos doesn't look like there's much to it. As well as the maps, but everything else looks like has been generated precisely. The app store, you have the system preference, the terminal, the calculator, you also have a text editor, a paint app which actually works. So, that is nice. And then you also have a snake game that was added. So, that's actually pretty cool. Now there is also weather app clock as well as a preview. So overall it did a great job in generating almost all of the components of a Mac OS. So that is definitely nice to see. Now frontend wise I do believe that the model does a pretty decent job but not the best. It is decent at most of the prompts. You can see most generations with all the different front-end prompts I had sent in are decent, not the best. It is kind of tacky, but overall does get the job done. I will give you one thing though. When it comes to creativity, it does a pretty decent job. But still, regardless, you do notice that there are certain components that aren't well generated with instructions that are given. But when you are to properly detail what you expect and what to actually use for the generations, it does do a decent job like the scroll triggers or like using different typographies. When it comes to following instructions, I believe the model does a pretty good job at that. Really liking the scroll triggers in most of these generations. It does actually the best out of any of the Chinese models that I've tested. So, that is actually a good thing. When you are to actually provide it a screenshot as a reference, it does a decent job. And this is where it's able to clone you quite well. And this is where I'd requested it to clone an Airbnb image which I had provided. And you can see that it did a decent job in cloning almost all of the components thoroughly. Also, this is kind of interesting. This is where the Quen 3.7 Max had basically generated this editorial SAS based off the input that I gave it. And this looks much like any of the outputs that Claude is actually generating. And you can see that with the typography as well as the color styling which looks really really similar to what baud actually outputs which leads you to think is quen actually training off of bod outputs here. I'd requested the model to actually generate a voxil pelican on a bicycle and this is a pretty good generation right here. You can see that it creatively actually generated in voxil art and you can see that this is a realworld front-end task with 3D engineering. And you can see that the model did a pretty decent job in creating the functional 3S gene the 3JS screen 3JS scene with strong spatial reasoning. You have rendering ambience as well and overall with its creativity and visual quality from a single prompt. It did a great job with this output. Another 3D scene atmosphere prompt was to actually generate a Zelda low poly landscape. And this is where it did a really good job and the ambience as well as creating the environment. Now, not everything is perfect, but the fact that we got a lot of the components nailed down is great. And you can see that with its creativity, it's able to actually create this 3D poly environment. This is a benchmark that I had requested the model to create a realistic aquarium. And this is something that tests how well the model is obviously in 3GS, but how it's able to simulate an aquarium where it is able to manage the physics of all of the individual fishes. And you can see this is one of the better generations I have seen. The fins properly move for each of the different fishes. You can see the UI control with the panel. You have the rendering system and real time optimization. What's really cool is if I am to enable the feeding mode, I can actually click on the different or the top of the water and you can see that there is food actually being dropped into the aquarium and this is where the fishes all rise up to eat up the food. That's a small little feature, but the fact that is able to actually code that out and specifically able to evaluate how well this long perform engineering task is able to incorporate things like spatial reasoning. You have different visual elements and the quality is definitely nice to see. And the fact that it's able to thoroughly generate all this in a single prompt is nice to see. When it comes to animation logic, rendering quality as well as styling accuracy. This is where the model actually does a really good job and it's able to excel in this case where it is able to output the front-end code that is thoroughly generating all of the components accurately based off the prompt that you provided. In SVG, the model does exceptionally well. And this is something that I've really noticed with a couple of these different prompts, which you'll see. This is the SVG world map. This is where almost every model fails at. And you can see that the model does quite bad. I don't know why my benchmark is sync good. I should tweak that. But you can see in these other prompts like the SVG Pelican illustration, you can see that it does decent job with the generation. It tried to add animation. It is doing quite well with the animated NYC SVG. Was able to properly and thoroughly depict what the SVG of New York City would look like. You can also see that with the animated infographics, the SVG painting prompt as well as the butterfly which you see over here. So almost all of these prompts are generated quite well and exceptionally well with SVG code based off the prompt that was given. Next is where the model was requested to create a 3D solar system. And you can see that it did a decent job. All the different planets have their own attributes. Saturn has its ring. You can see that Jupiter has its eye. And what you'll notice is the lighting and architecture to actually generate this scene is thoroughly accurate cuz you can see that there's the dark side of all the different planets that are facing away from the sun, which is definitely nice. and the fact that it even generated the asteroid belt and overall it did do a decent job. Now, one thing I'm not too sure, maybe someone can let me know in the comments. The Saturn actually moved like that. Next is where I'd requested it to create a Minecraft clone. Now, we can actually take a look at this by downloading it. And this is the Minecraft clone that it had generated. Now, right away, what I like is that there is actually water, but the water physics is definitely not generated properly because you can actually walk through it and you can't really see everything thoroughly like what you would in the actual sandbox game. But the fact that you're able to break blocks, you have different time environments, you also have the ability to place blocks, you can break it, and one thing I've also noticed is that it even generated actual cave systems. So, if we are to actually deep dig deep into the terrain, you might actually run through a cave system. And you can see that there's different blocks that have been added inside this cave system. If you like this video and would love to support the channel, you can consider donating to my channel through the super thanks option below. Or you can consider joining our private Discord where you can access multiple subscriptions to different AI tools for free on a monthly basis. plus daily AI news and exclusive content, plus a lot more. I got to say, the Quinn 3.7 Max is surprisingly solid at architectural reasoning as well as working through different web development tasks. As you saw through my benchmark, as well as the other different benchmarks I showcased at the start of the video, you can see that the model does quite a well job at sustaining coherent autonomous workflows and it's able to get the task done based off the detailed prompt that you give it. And this is something that could be a handy tool to use in many different workflows due to it following different instructions thoroughly based off the prompt that you give it. I'll leave all the links that I use in today's video in the description below. But with that thought, guys, thank you guys so much for watching. Hope you enjoyed today's video. Make sure you go ahead and subscribe to the second channel. Make sure you join the newsletter, join the Discord, follow me on Twitter, and lastly, make sure you guys subscribe, turn on notification bell, like this video, and please take a look at our previous videos so that you can stay up to date with the latest AI news. But with that thought, guys, have an amazing day, spread positivity, and I'll see you guys fairly shortly. Peace out, fellas.