 
Intel was kind enough to send me this
Arc Pro B70. This is their response to
other 32 GB GPUs designed specifically
for local AI workloads. As I have said
many times on this channel, right now 32
GB is the minimum on a discrete GPU if
you want to be able to run good models
for local agents like the Qwen 3.6
family. In this video, we will look at
the hardware specs, how to get the B70
up and running with llama.cpp and vLLM,
and I will walk you through the
benchmarks and the current software
support and caveats so you know what to
expect. I won't talk much about pricing
as GPU prices can be a little bit of a
lottery at the moment, but this card
targets essentially the same audience as
the AMD R9 7900 AI Pro, and you can find
it for a similar price if not a little
bit cheaper.
So, first let's look at the specs. The
Arc Pro B70 is built on the Battlemage
Xe2 architecture using a 4 nanometer
process, and it comes with 32 Xe cores.
The important part for local inference
is that each of these cores is paired
with what Intel calls Xe Matrix
Extensions. These are dedicated matrix
cores which are Intel's equivalent to
tensor cores on Nvidia cards or matrix
cores or WMMA units on AMD GPUs. These
engines accelerate the matrix
multiplications that dominate LLM
workloads. The hardware supports
operations in formats like BF16, which
is a 16-bit format optimized for machine
learning that basically most modern
models are trained in natively. It also
supports other formats used to run
quantized models natively like FP8,
INT8, and INT4. Support for these
formats is important as it allows you to
run different quantizations natively and
so much faster. So, when it comes to
memory, which is usually the main
bottleneck for LLMs, the B70 comes with
32 GB of GDDR6
and 608 GB/s
of memory bandwidth. If we put this next
to the AMD Radeon 9 700 that I tested
recently, they are physically very
similar since both give you 32 GB of
VRAM and are around the 600 GB/s memory
bandwidth.
When dealing with non-Nvidia GPUs,
software support becomes a very
important consideration. On Nvidia, you
have CUDA, which is the most mature
ecosystem by far, and on AMD, you have
ROCm, which is getting better and
better. For Intel, the equivalent
ecosystem is based on one API, and the
framework we use to write and run
compute kernels is called SYCL.
Underneath that, the low-level interface
talking to the driver is called Level
Zero. Now, if an LLM inference engine
like llama.cpp or vLLM wants to support
Intel GPUs, they need to implement
support for the SYCL backend. In
practice, this means writing kernels in
SYCL for all operations needed to
implement a particular model
architecture. As we usually do on this
channel, we will start by looking at
llama.cpp.
The main benefit of llama.cpp is the
unified ecosystem. If llama.cpp supports
a model, you can run it on any of its
backends, and it supports many model
architectures and quantization formats
out of the box. In contrast, vLLM is
more complex. It can give you better
performance, especially for higher
levels of concurrency, but at the
expense of compatibility, since many
are not supported across all backends,
as we will see later.
Okay, let's see how to get the B70 up
and running with llama.cpp and vLLM.
Your main resource here is this
repository, Intel B70 AI Toolboxes, that
I created. And essentially, a toolbox,
if you're not familiar with it and it's
the first time on the channel, these are
just Docker or Podman containers, but
there is a layer on top created by
toolbox, which essentially makes it
seamless to use as if it were a
local shell on your host operating
system rather than being in a Docker
container. It's got a lot of advantages,
such as it's got access to your home
directory by default,
and the same network stack, and I find
it's actually very, very simple to get
up and running. If you want to know more
about toolbox, that's the main project.
Now, this is native on Fedora, and I'm
actually going to be using Fedora in my
demos, so that's your best bet if you
want to follow exactly what I'm doing.
If you're using Ubuntu or Arch Linux or
some of the other distributions, I am
told that toolbox doesn't work well. So,
you might want to change to distrobox.
So, all of the toolbox commands uh need
to be changed to distrobox. If you look
at these, I have essentially three
toolboxes, two which are llama CPP
toolboxes, one with the SQL backend, and
one with the Vulcan backend. If you're
not familiar with Vulcan, this is
essentially a general API layer, and
then each GPU manufacturer can implement
uh their own driver for Vulcan, and this
essentially exposes an API which is the
same uh to access all of the uh
different GPUs. So, this is for maximum
compatibility, but then obviously we
also have the SQL backend, and in
theory, if you use the backend which is
specific for your GPU type, uh you might
be able to unlock better performance.
So, we'll take a look at that. And then
obviously I have the vLLM toolbox that
I'm going to tell you a little bit more
later. So, to get the toolboxes up and
running, you can use toolbox or
distrobox if you are on Ubuntu to
essentially create that toolbox, to pull
it down from Docker, and what's from
Docker Hub. And what's important here is
obviously this, which essentially maps
your GPU inside the uh toolbox or
container, and makes it available. Be
careful that Vulcan has uh different
requirements than SQL, so this is a
different command line uh that you need
to be using. After you've created it,
you can just enter the toolbox.
Now, this is not too difficult, but I
thought to simplify it a few weeks ago
by creating something called llama
toolboxes cockpit. This is essentially a
UI that allows you to do all the stuff
that I described and to manage models
and tool boxes in a very simple way.
It does have support for the other
architectures that I typically work
with, but I've added Arc B70 support. To
get this up and running, very simple,
there is a single command you have to
run and you need to have pipx installed.
So I'm here on my server where I am
SSH'd in and I can essentially install
it with that command. Obviously here I
had it already installed. So once it's
it's installed, you can just run it with
llama.cpp. And the first thing you have
to do is to choose your backend, in my
case Intel Arc B70, and you will see
here the tool boxes which are available
for that particular backend. Then let's
say we want the sequel one, you can
select it and you can click create or
update. Incidentally, I tend to update
tool boxes automatically with a job
every time there is a new release of
llama.cpp. So now the tool box has been
created, I can select it
and I can click enter and this drops me
inside the tool box and I can check with
the llama.cpp
command list devices
and I can see my GPU available with
sequel. So this confirms everything is
working. Now, if I want to load a model,
I need to go on Hugging Face and
download the model, but for the models
that I typically use, I've implemented a
model manager that does that already for
you. I by default download all the
models in your home directory and
remember this is outside of the tool box
in your main host Linux distribution.
You can change that path if you want.
And let's say I want Quinn 3.6 27
billion parameter. I can select it and I
can click download. This connects to our
game face and shows me all of the
quantization available. This is the uns
lot quants. I've already got the
Quinn 3.6 27 billion model, which is one
of the best models currently available.
They will fit on this GPU in
Q4 KXL quantization. But if I wanted a
different quant, I could just select it
and this would download it automatically
for me in this directory. You can see
here the local models that I have
already downloaded and these are the
ones that I typically tend to use and
benchmark. So let's say I want to run
one of those models. I select my
toolbox. I am inside the toolbox.
I go into my models folder in my home
directory and I look for the model that
I want. In this case, I've got the
Quinn 3.6 model and then I can just do
llama server.
Typically, you want flash attention and
then you're going to pass the model and
you can pass a context size that you
prefer.
And then typically for these models, you
want the ginger templates. And there it
is. You just press enter and this is
going to load the model
into memory. The model is now loaded and
you can see that llama.cpp is listening
on port
8080 on localhost. Now, if you want to
access this on your laptop, you need to
forward that port with SSH and this is
how I typically do that. Doublelift is
the name of the server on which I'm
running all of this. So now the port has
been forwarded and I can So I can go in
the browser on port 8080 and llama.cpp
has a very nice UI. So I can say hello
and obviously I get the model to respond
to me. And you can see the speed of the
model, tokens per second,
and so on. Now if you want to see the
GPU being utilized
and the top is one of the best ways of
looking at that. So you can see my
Battlemage
GPU here, which is device two.
Actually, I'm going to make this
a little bit smaller. And so if for
example, I say right,
that's now obviously using the GPU and
you can see my GPU
being utilized by
llama server there.
It's doing a lot of thinking. quantize
3.6 spends quite a bit of time thinking.
I don't think I am going to
allow this to continue, but hopefully
you get an idea of how to get the
toolboxes up and running. Now you also
have another option. Let's say you do
not want to use toolbox. You don't want
to use distrobox. You just want a
container. I have added in the
um
llama cockpit a server mode. So in
server mode, you can select your image,
you can select whether you want to use
podman or docker, and this completely
bypasses
toolbox or distrobox. You can give it a
model you want to run. In my case,
again,
we're going to go for quantize 3.6. And
by the way, this will support
n t p multi-token prediction. So, I'm
going to select that one. If you're not
familiar with multi-token prediction,
just check the video that I released
probably just a few weeks ago
on this, but it's a way of speeding up
token generation. Anyway, this
prepopulates all the stuff that I need,
in this case also for
MTP. And then I can just start the
server. And as you can see, this in this
case uses Podman. You could do the same
with Docker,
but you don't have to mess up with
any of the toolbox or distrobox
commands, and it should be the most
compatible option on any Linux operating
system.
And it's going to come up, hopefully, in
a second. And there it is. This is now
up and running, and I can refresh this.
And I can say again
the same prompt as before, but one thing
you might notice is that this is
currently slower with MTP than it is
without MTP. And now I suspect
this is because the MTP support in cql
is not very well implemented. Again, I
haven't tried this. It's the first time
I'm actually trying to run MTP on the
B70, but I'm seeing this is much slower
than I'm expecting.
And again, it's probably because the cql
backend has not been optimized with MTP
yet.
Okay, let's now take a look at the LLM.
Here, I haven't implemented anything in
the llama.cpp cockpit. Obviously, this
is just for llama.cpp. So, to get VLLM
up and running, you are simply going to
need to use the toolbox or distrobox
create command.
And you just run it. Obviously, it's
already loaded for me. So, you can then
just enter
that particular toolbox. Now, it's worth
noting that this toolbox is based on LLM
Scala, which is a fork that Intel
maintains of vLLM ComfyUI and some of
the other uh generative AI inference
engines. And they essentially curate uh
kernels and versions of vLLM with
kernels that use the hardware and are
optimized for these specific hardware.
For example, they pushed an update in
May uh specifically for the B70. And
this have fork from Intel does show in
the benchmarks. Again, later in the
video, I will show you the benchmarks
and you will see what it means when
Intel gets their own engineers to fork
vLLM and implement custom kernels that
are really tailored to the architecture.
Now, the downside
is that this is not the most recent
version of vLLM and some models like,
for example, Gemma 4 are actually not
supported here uh yet. You can see a
list of all of the supported model. And
honestly, some of them are obviously
quite old. And the other caveat is that
you don't have all of the different
quantizations that you would typically
find supported on Nvidia or even on AMD.
For example, I wasn't able to get any of
the AWQ
uh quants to run, but you can run some
of the GPTQ quant. So again, you have
very good performance with uh the vllm
fork from lm llm scaler, but you need to
wait uh for some models and quants to be
supported. Now, once you are in the
toolbox, I made this as simple as
possible. I give you a start vllm kind
of UI. You can select a few models and
yeah, this is a very small list of
models that I have tested. I typically
do llama 3.1 8B because it's a good
model for benchmarking performance
across different GPUs. You can select
that model.
Here are the parameters. Obviously, I
only have one of these B70s, so I can't
do any uh tensor parallelism, number of
concurrent requests, context size. And
one thing that's important right now, if
I am not mistaken,
uh you have to run these in eager mode.
You basically cannot compile um CUDA
graphs, so they're not stable. Anyway,
once you have that, this is the command
line of vllm and it starts vllm or the
lm llm scaler fork of vllm and gets uh
that loaded into memory and available.
And at some point, you can see here
all of the processes that are actually
uh using the GPU and you can see the GPU
uh that's starting to be to be used.
That's now there up and running.
Okay, let's now take a look at the
benchmarks, which I know is the part
that uh most of you are interested in
when you're considering this card. Uh
we're going to be starting from the
llama.cpp benchmarks. I think I have a
link here
to the uh to the live benchmarks. So, as
usual, we have the different backend, c
call and Vulcan, the different models
that I test like Gemma 4 and 1 3.5 and
3.6 with some of the different
quantizations.
And we have prompt processing and token
generation at the default context window
and with a 16K context window. Now, I
have to say that at the moment
the SQL back-end implementation on this
card has some memory utilization issues.
So, on the equivalent R9 700, I am able
to use a larger context, uh but on this
card, I have noticed that if I go
higher, uh I start having some issues,
which means that that SQL back-end on
Llama CPP, it is still not optimized uh
to use the memory in the best possible
way. So, that's why you only see 16K and
not a larger context. Now, obviously,
this uh
gives you an idea of the types of
performance you can get on models uh
like 1 3.6 in Q4 quantization. Uh the uh
731
tokens per second in prompt processing
is just about okay, and
20 token per second in
token generation is again, is okay, uh
but obviously, you want to be uh
comparing this to something like the
equivalent AMD offering, the uh AI Pro
R9 700. Now, you will see immediately,
uh let's take the uh 1 3.6 model.
Uh and you can see that in general, uh
right now on Llama CPP, the performance
gap is incredible. The same model, the
same quantization here,
you can see that big difference. Um even
on the
MoE model, mixture of expert model, here
we are almost getting 3,000 tokens per
second in prompt processing and here
we're getting a third of that
essentially. Now, this is not, I think,
an issue with the hardware itself. I
think the card is capable, as we'll see
later in vLLM, with a with an LLM
scaler, is capable to do so much better.
But the problem, I believe, is that the
um implementation
in llama.cpp is not complete. So, this
is inside the uh llama.cpp
implementation and you can see that
those um
units, those matrix cores, those matrix
units are currently not used. Uh and
there is a to-do, uh but it looks like
that in the sequel backend, uh this is
an incomplete implementation, which
essentially means the message is this
can get so much better uh if somebody
from llama.cpp or some developer can
find uh the time to implement the
specific instructions that are going to
use those matrix cores. So, I also
created this um to give you an idea of
the performance difference, but I think
it was already quite clear. So, in
prompt processing, for some models,
there is such a difference just because
the hardware is better supported on the
the AMD hardware is so much better
supported on llama.cpp than on vLLM. So,
you can see we have orders of magnitude
um difference here. So, that's a bit
disappointing, but again, there is hope.
And then we can go and take a look at
the VLLM benchmarks, which I think you
can just access here. And VLLM is where
you are going to see these shine a
little bit more.
So, on the right side we have the AI Pro
and I'm just going to
show you for the same model. So, the
Llama 3.1 8 billion parameters,
these reaches 2,054 tokens per second,
while the AMD R9 700 is basically the
same. I mean, with the Triton and the
i-Tert attention, this is performing
pretty similarly and that's what makes
me think that the hardware, in terms of
raw performance, can actually reach the
same. Of course, what you see here on
the left side, remember this is the fork
of the LLM that the LLM Scaler project
at Intel maintains. So, this is the best
performance you can get and it really
shows because if you look at the Qwen
3.5 9 billion parameter model,
these runs extremely extremely fast on
the B70 2,236
tokens per second and the R9 700 is not
even close to that. And again, this is
more, I think,
an issue with the R9 700 support on
VLLM, which is actually not as good for
some models than the Intel LLM Scaler
project. But I thought I would show you
these because the two cards are probably
able to give you very similar
performance, but the software stack
really matters.
So, I want to see hopefully in the next
few months
everything improving on both the AMD
card and the B70 card. And for the B70,
what we want to see really is much
better llama.cpp support because that
opens up access to a much larger
ecosystem of models.
So, that's the current state of LLM
inference on the Arc Pro B70. The Intel
Scaler project also includes support for
ComfyUI. So, if people are interested in
seeing a dedicated video on image and
video generation on this card, please
let me know, for example, in the
comments, and I will try to put that
together. For people new to this
channel, this is mostly a hobby project
of mine, and it's very community-driven.
So, if I see genuine interest and
engagement from the community, say in
the comments, I'll definitely spend some
more time testing and optimizing
performance on this card as I have done
for other hardware that you can find on
my channel. And again, the B70
definitely looks like it's got a lot of
potential. If you want to support my
work, you can just buy me a coffee, and
you find a link for that in the
description. That's all for this video.
See you next time.
